README.md, before:

# cookbook

## Description


## Installation
### Requirements
- PHP 8.1 or higher
- Composer
- Docker and Docker Compose (for database and other services)


### Steps to Set Up the Project Locally

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/korhy/cookbook.git
    cd cookbook
    ```

2. Install dependencies using Composer:
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```
3. Configure your database connection in the `.env` file.

4. Start the Symfony local server:
   ```bash
   symfony server:start
   ```

5. Start Docker services (Database, mailer, etc.):
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

6. Run database migrations to set up the schema:
   ```bash
   php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate
   ```

7. (Optional) Load initial data(Check data section for more info about the file format):
    ```bash
    php -d memory_limit=1024M bin/console app:import-csv path/to/your/csv/file.csv --batch-size=25
    ```

8. Create an admin user to access the admin panel:
   ```bash
   symfony console security:hash-password
   ```
   Enter your desired password and copy the hashed output. Then run:
   ```bash
   symfony run psql -c "INSERT INTO admin (id, username, roles, password) VALUES (nextval('admin_id_seq'), 'admin', '[\"ROLE_ADMIN\"]', 'your_hashed_password_here');" 
   ```

9. Access the application at `http://localhost:8000`.

## Testing

### Setting Up the Test Environment

1. Create the test database:
   ```bash
   php bin/console doctrine:database:create --env=test
   ```

2. Run migrations on the test database:
   ```bash
   php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate --env=test --no-interaction
   ```

3. (Optional) Load initial data(Check data section for more info about the file format):
    ```bash
    php -d memory_limit=1024M bin/console app:import-csv path/to/your/csv/file.csv --batch-size=25
    ```

### Running Tests

Run all tests:
```bash
php bin/phpunit
```

Run tests for a specific class:
```bash
php bin/phpunit tests/Entity/RecipeTest.php
```

Run tests with coverage (requires Xdebug):
```bash
php bin/phpunit --coverage-html var/coverage
```

### Test Structure

The project includes:
- **Unit tests**: Testing entities and services (e.g., `RecipeTest`, `SluggerServiceTest`)
- **Functional tests**: Testing controllers and HTTP responses (e.g., `SecurityControllerTest`)
- **Repository tests**: Testing database queries and data retrieval

## Data Import
You can import recipes in bulk using the CSV import command. The CSV file should have the following columns:

- recipe_title
- category
- subcategory
- description
- ingredients
- directions
- num_ingredients
- num_steps

For my testing, I used a CSV file from [Kaggle - Recipe Ingredients and Reviews](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/prashantsingh001/recipes-dataset-64k-dishes).

Commit message:

docs: update README with installation instructions and CSV import documentation

README.md, after:

# cookbook

## Description

A Symfony-based recipe management application that allows you to organize, browse, and manage your cookbook. Features include recipe categorization, ingredient tracking, and an admin panel for easy content management. Supports bulk importing recipes from CSV files.

## Installation
### Requirements
- PHP 8.1 or higher
- Composer
- Docker and Docker Compose (for database and other services)


### Steps to Set Up the Project Locally

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/korhy/cookbook.git
    cd cookbook
    ```

2. Install dependencies using Composer:
   ```bash
   composer install
   ```
3. Configure your database connection in the `.env` file.

4. Start the Symfony local server:
   ```bash
   symfony server:start
   ```

5. Start Docker services (Database, mailer, etc.):
   ```bash
   docker-compose up -d
   ```

6. Run database migrations to set up the schema:
   ```bash
   php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate
   ```

7. (Optional) Load initial data(Check data section for more info about the file format):
    ```bash
    php -d memory_limit=1024M bin/console app:import-csv path/to/your/csv/file.csv --batch-size=25
    ```

8. Create an admin user to access the admin panel:
   ```bash
   symfony console security:hash-password
   ```
   Enter your desired password and copy the hashed output. Then run:
   ```bash
   symfony run psql -c "INSERT INTO admin (id, username, roles, password) VALUES (nextval('admin_id_seq'), 'admin', '[\"ROLE_ADMIN\"]', 'your_hashed_password_here');" 
   ```

9. Access the application at `http://localhost:8000`.

## Testing

### Setting Up the Test Environment

1. Create the test database:
   ```bash
   php bin/console doctrine:database:create --env=test
   ```

2. Run migrations on the test database:
   ```bash
   php bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate --env=test --no-interaction
   ```

3. (Optional) Load initial data(Check data section for more info about the file format):
    ```bash
    php -d memory_limit=1024M bin/console --batch-size=25
    ```

### Running Tests

Run all tests:
```bash
php bin/phpunit
```

Run tests for a specific class:
```bash
php bin/phpunit tests/Entity/RecipeTest.php
```

Run tests with coverage (requires Xdebug):
```bash
php bin/phpunit --coverage-html var/coverage
```

### Test Structure

The project includes:
- **Unit tests**: Testing entities and services (e.g., `RecipeTest`, `SluggerServiceTest`)
- **Functional tests**: Testing controllers and HTTP responses (e.g., `SecurityControllerTest`)
- **Repository tests**: Testing database queries and data retrieval

## Data Import
You can import recipes in bulk using the CSV import command. The CSV file should have the following columns:

- recipe_title
- category
- subcategory
- description
- ingredients
- directions
- num_ingredients
- num_steps

For my testing, I used a CSV file from [Kaggle - Recipe Ingredients and Reviews](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/prashantsingh001/recipes-dataset-64k-dishes).
